these are macaque monkeys the kind that
in Sumatra in Java
sometimes trained sees camber up palm
trees and gather coconuts to their
masters these Balinese ones however seem
to regard things the other way around
it's us who have to provide food for
them when they are grooming one another
they're not simply looking for fleas but
a searching one another skin for tasty
little grains of salt
although these monkeys look charming and
sweet scampering over the temple
carvings they're really quite a savage
lot ruled over very harshly by one old
male
there was no sharing of the grains of
maize I offered them and often they
would fight and squabble over them as a
result of the older and bigger ones got
far more than their fair share I tried
hard to give these little babies some
food but always the adults snatched it
from my hand and once a baby did manage
to grab a grain its mother wrenched open
its jaws extracted the maize unaided
herself